docs/root/configuration/runtime.rst, before:

.. _config_runtime:

Runtime
=======

The :ref:`runtime configuration <arch_overview_runtime>` specifies the location of the local file
system tree that contains re-loadable configuration elements. If runtime is not configured, a "null"
provider is used which has the effect of using all defaults built into the code.

* :ref:`v1 API reference <config_runtime_v1>`
* :ref:`v2 API reference <envoy_api_msg_config.bootstrap.v2.Runtime>`

File system layout
------------------

Various sections of the configuration guide describe the runtime settings that are available.
For example, :ref:`here <config_cluster_manager_cluster_runtime>` are the runtime settings for
upstream clusters.

Assume that the folder ``/srv/runtime/v1`` points to the actual file system path where global
runtime configurations are stored. The following would be a typical configuration setting for
runtime:

* *symlink_root*: ``/srv/runtime/current``
* *subdirectory*: ``envoy``
* *override_subdirectory*: ``envoy_override``

Where ``/srv/runtime/current`` is a symbolic link to ``/srv/runtime/v1``.

Each '.' in a runtime key indicates a new directory in the hierarchy, rooted at *symlink_root* +
*subdirectory*. For example, the *health_check.min_interval* key would have the following full
file system path (using the symbolic link):

``/srv/runtime/current/envoy/health_check/min_interval``

The terminal portion of a path is the file. The contents of the file constitute the runtime value.
When reading numeric values from a file, spaces and new lines will be ignored.

The *override_subdirectory* is used along with the :option:`--service-cluster` CLI option. Assume
that :option:`--service-cluster` has been set to ``my-cluster``. Envoy will first look for the
*health_check.min_interval* key in the following full file system path:

``/srv/runtime/current/envoy_override/my-cluster/health_check/min_interval``

If found, the value will override any value found in the primary lookup path. This allows the user
to customize the runtime values for individual clusters on top of global defaults.

.. _config_runtime_comments:

Comments
--------

Lines starting with ``#`` as the first character are treated as comments.

Comments can be used to provide context on an existing value. Comments are also useful in an
otherwise empty file to keep a placeholder for deployment in a time of need.

.. _config_runtime_symbolic_link_swap:

Updating runtime values via symbolic link swap
----------------------------------------------

There are two steps to update any runtime value. First, create a hard copy of the entire runtime
tree and update the desired runtime values. Second, atomically swap the symbolic link root from the
old tree to the new runtime tree, using the equivalent of the following command:

.. code-block:: console

  /srv/runtime:~$ ln -s /srv/runtime/v2 new && mv -Tf new current

It's beyond the scope of this document how the file system data is deployed, garbage collected, etc.

Statistics
----------

The file system runtime provider emits some statistics in the *runtime.* namespace.

.. csv-table::
  :header: Name, Type, Description
  :widths: 1, 1, 2

  load_error, Counter, Total number of load attempts that resulted in an error
  override_dir_not_exists, Counter, Total number of loads that did not use an override directory
  override_dir_exists, Counter, Total number of loads that did use an override directory
  load_success, Counter, Total number of load attempts that were successful
  num_keys, Gauge, Number of keys currently loaded

Commit message:

docs: /runtime_modify admin endpoint docs (#557)
Signed-off-by: James Sedgwick <jsedgwick@lyft.com>

docs/root/configuration/runtime.rst, after:

.. _config_runtime:

Runtime
=======

The :ref:`runtime configuration <arch_overview_runtime>` specifies the location of the local file
system tree that contains re-loadable configuration elements. Values can be viewed at the
:ref:`/runtime admin endpoint <operations_admin_interface_runtime>`. Values can be modified and
added at the :ref:`/runtime_modify admin endpoint <operations_admin_interface_runtime_modify>`. If
runtime is not configured, an empty provider is used which has the effect of using all defaults
built into the code, except for any values added via `/runtime_modify`.

.. attention::

  Use the :ref:`/runtime_modify<operations_admin_interface_runtime_modify>` endpoint with care.
  Changes are effectively immediately. It is **critical** that the admin interface is :ref:`properly
  secured <operations_admin_interface_security>`.


* :ref:`v1 API reference <config_runtime_v1>`
* :ref:`v2 API reference <envoy_api_msg_config.bootstrap.v2.Runtime>`

File system layout
------------------

Various sections of the configuration guide describe the runtime settings that are available.
For example, :ref:`here <config_cluster_manager_cluster_runtime>` are the runtime settings for
upstream clusters.

Assume that the folder ``/srv/runtime/v1`` points to the actual file system path where global
runtime configurations are stored. The following would be a typical configuration setting for
runtime:

* *symlink_root*: ``/srv/runtime/current``
* *subdirectory*: ``envoy``
* *override_subdirectory*: ``envoy_override``

Where ``/srv/runtime/current`` is a symbolic link to ``/srv/runtime/v1``.

Each '.' in a runtime key indicates a new directory in the hierarchy, rooted at *symlink_root* +
*subdirectory*. For example, the *health_check.min_interval* key would have the following full
file system path (using the symbolic link):

``/srv/runtime/current/envoy/health_check/min_interval``

The terminal portion of a path is the file. The contents of the file constitute the runtime value.
When reading numeric values from a file, spaces and new lines will be ignored.

The *override_subdirectory* is used along with the :option:`--service-cluster` CLI option. Assume
that :option:`--service-cluster` has been set to ``my-cluster``. Envoy will first look for the
*health_check.min_interval* key in the following full file system path:

``/srv/runtime/current/envoy_override/my-cluster/health_check/min_interval``

If found, the value will override any value found in the primary lookup path. This allows the user
to customize the runtime values for individual clusters on top of global defaults.

.. _config_runtime_comments:

Comments
--------

Lines starting with ``#`` as the first character are treated as comments.

Comments can be used to provide context on an existing value. Comments are also useful in an
otherwise empty file to keep a placeholder for deployment in a time of need.

.. _config_runtime_symbolic_link_swap:

Updating runtime values via symbolic link swap
----------------------------------------------

There are two steps to update any runtime value. First, create a hard copy of the entire runtime
tree and update the desired runtime values. Second, atomically swap the symbolic link root from the
old tree to the new runtime tree, using the equivalent of the following command:

.. code-block:: console

  /srv/runtime:~$ ln -s /srv/runtime/v2 new && mv -Tf new current

It's beyond the scope of this document how the file system data is deployed, garbage collected, etc.

Statistics
----------

The file system runtime provider emits some statistics in the *runtime.* namespace.

.. csv-table::
  :header: Name, Type, Description
  :widths: 1, 1, 2

  load_error, Counter, Total number of load attempts that resulted in an error
  override_dir_not_exists, Counter, Total number of loads that did not use an override directory
  override_dir_exists, Counter, Total number of loads that did use an override directory
  load_success, Counter, Total number of load attempts that were successful
  num_keys, Gauge, Number of keys currently loaded
