docs/root/configuration/overview/v1_overview.rst, before:

.. _config_overview_v1:

Overview (v1 API)
=================

.. attention::

  The v1 configuration/API is now considered legacy. It will be deprecated in a future Envoy release
  and eventually removed completely. If you are new to Envoy please consider starting with the
  :ref:`v2 configuration/API <config_overview_v2>`.

The Envoy configuration format is written in JSON and is validated against a JSON schema. The
schema can be found in :repo:`source/common/json/config_schemas.cc`. The main configuration for the
server is contained within the listeners and cluster manager sections. The other top level elements
specify miscellaneous configuration.

YAML support is also provided as a syntactic convenience for hand-written configurations. Envoy will
internally convert YAML to JSON if a file path ends with .yaml. In the rest of the configuration
documentation, we refer exclusively to JSON. Envoy expects unambiguous YAML scalars, so if a cluster
name (which should be a string) is called *true*, it should be written in the configuration YAML as
*"true"*. The same applies to integer and floating point values (e.g. *1* vs. *1.0* vs. *"1.0"*).


.. code-block:: json

  {
    "listeners": [],
    "lds": "{...}",
    "admin": "{...}",
    "cluster_manager": "{...}",
    "flags_path": "...",
    "statsd_udp_ip_address": "...",
    "statsd_tcp_cluster_name": "...",
    "stats_flush_interval_ms": "...",
    "watchdog_miss_timeout_ms": "...",
    "watchdog_megamiss_timeout_ms": "...",
    "watchdog_kill_timeout_ms": "...",
    "watchdog_multikill_timeout_ms": "...",
    "tracing": "{...}",
    "rate_limit_service": "{...}",
    "runtime": "{...}",
  }

:ref:`listeners <config_listeners>`
  *(required, array)* An array of :ref:`listeners <arch_overview_listeners>` that will be
  instantiated by the server. A single Envoy process can contain any number of listeners.

.. _config_overview_lds:

:ref:`lds <config_listeners_lds>`
  *(optional, object)* Configuration for the Listener Discovery Service (LDS). If not specified
  only static listeners are loaded.

:ref:`admin <config_admin_v1>`
  *(required, object)* Configuration for the :ref:`local administration HTTP server
  <operations_admin_interface>`.

:ref:`cluster_manager <config_cluster_manager>`
  *(required, object)* Configuration for the :ref:`cluster manager <arch_overview_cluster_manager>`
  which owns all upstream clusters within the server.

.. _config_overview_flags_path:

flags_path
  *(optional, string)* The file system path to search for :ref:`startup flag files
  <operations_file_system_flags>`.

.. _config_overview_statsd_udp_ip_address:

statsd_udp_ip_address
  *(optional, string)* The UDP address of a running statsd compliant listener. If specified,
  :ref:`statistics <arch_overview_statistics>` will be flushed to this address. IPv4 addresses should
  have format host:port (ex: 127.0.0.1:855). IPv6 addresses should have URL format [host]:port
  (ex: [::1]:855).

statsd_tcp_cluster_name
  *(optional, string)* The name of a cluster manager cluster that is running a TCP statsd compliant
  listener. If specified, Envoy will connect to this cluster to flush :ref:`statistics
  <arch_overview_statistics>`.

.. _config_overview_stats_flush_interval_ms:

stats_flush_interval_ms
  *(optional, integer)* The time in milliseconds between flushes to configured stats sinks. For
  performance reasons Envoy latches counters and only flushes counters and gauges at a periodic
  interval. If not specified the default is 5000ms (5 seconds).

watchdog_miss_timeout_ms
  *(optional, integer)* The time in milliseconds after which Envoy counts a nonresponsive thread in the
  "server.watchdog_miss" statistic. If not specified the default is 200ms.

watchdog_megamiss_timeout_ms
  *(optional, integer)* The time in milliseconds after which Envoy counts a nonresponsive thread in the
  "server.watchdog_mega_miss" statistic. If not specified the default is 1000ms.

watchdog_kill_timeout_ms
  *(optional, integer)* If a watched thread has been nonresponsive for this many milliseconds assume
  a programming error and kill the entire Envoy process. Set to 0 to disable kill behavior. If not
  specified the default is 0 (disabled).

watchdog_multikill_timeout_ms
  *(optional, integer)* If at least two watched threads have been nonresponsive for at least this many
  milliseconds assume a true deadlock and kill the entire Envoy process. Set to 0 to disable this
  behavior. If not specified the default is 0 (disabled).

:ref:`tracing <config_tracing_v1>`
  *(optional, object)* Configuration for an external :ref:`tracing <arch_overview_tracing>`
  provider. If not specified, no tracing will be performed.

:ref:`rate_limit_service <config_rate_limit_service>`
  *(optional, object)* Configuration for an external :ref:`rate limit service
  <arch_overview_rate_limit>` provider. If not specified, any calls to the rate limit service will
  immediately return success.

:ref:`runtime <config_runtime_v1>`
  *(optional, object)* Configuration for the :ref:`runtime configuration <arch_overview_runtime>`
  provider. If not specified, a "null" provider will be used which will result in all defaults being
  used.

Commit message:

v1 api: link to deprecation schedule
Signed-off-by: Matt Klein <mklein@lyft.com>

docs/root/configuration/overview/v1_overview.rst, after:

.. _config_overview_v1:

Overview (v1 API)
=================

.. attention::

  The v1 configuration/API is now considered legacy and the `deprecation schedule <https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/envoy-announce/Lb1QZcSclGQ>`_
  has been announced. Please upgrade and use the :ref:`v2 configuration/API <config_overview_v2>`.

The Envoy configuration format is written in JSON and is validated against a JSON schema. The
schema can be found in :repo:`source/common/json/config_schemas.cc`. The main configuration for the
server is contained within the listeners and cluster manager sections. The other top level elements
specify miscellaneous configuration.

YAML support is also provided as a syntactic convenience for hand-written configurations. Envoy will
internally convert YAML to JSON if a file path ends with .yaml. In the rest of the configuration
documentation, we refer exclusively to JSON. Envoy expects unambiguous YAML scalars, so if a cluster
name (which should be a string) is called *true*, it should be written in the configuration YAML as
*"true"*. The same applies to integer and floating point values (e.g. *1* vs. *1.0* vs. *"1.0"*).


.. code-block:: json

  {
    "listeners": [],
    "lds": "{...}",
    "admin": "{...}",
    "cluster_manager": "{...}",
    "flags_path": "...",
    "statsd_udp_ip_address": "...",
    "statsd_tcp_cluster_name": "...",
    "stats_flush_interval_ms": "...",
    "watchdog_miss_timeout_ms": "...",
    "watchdog_megamiss_timeout_ms": "...",
    "watchdog_kill_timeout_ms": "...",
    "watchdog_multikill_timeout_ms": "...",
    "tracing": "{...}",
    "rate_limit_service": "{...}",
    "runtime": "{...}",
  }

:ref:`listeners <config_listeners>`
  *(required, array)* An array of :ref:`listeners <arch_overview_listeners>` that will be
  instantiated by the server. A single Envoy process can contain any number of listeners.

.. _config_overview_lds:

:ref:`lds <config_listeners_lds>`
  *(optional, object)* Configuration for the Listener Discovery Service (LDS). If not specified
  only static listeners are loaded.

:ref:`admin <config_admin_v1>`
  *(required, object)* Configuration for the :ref:`local administration HTTP server
  <operations_admin_interface>`.

:ref:`cluster_manager <config_cluster_manager>`
  *(required, object)* Configuration for the :ref:`cluster manager <arch_overview_cluster_manager>`
  which owns all upstream clusters within the server.

.. _config_overview_flags_path:

flags_path
  *(optional, string)* The file system path to search for :ref:`startup flag files
  <operations_file_system_flags>`.

.. _config_overview_statsd_udp_ip_address:

statsd_udp_ip_address
  *(optional, string)* The UDP address of a running statsd compliant listener. If specified,
  :ref:`statistics <arch_overview_statistics>` will be flushed to this address. IPv4 addresses should
  have format host:port (ex: 127.0.0.1:855). IPv6 addresses should have URL format [host]:port
  (ex: [::1]:855).

statsd_tcp_cluster_name
  *(optional, string)* The name of a cluster manager cluster that is running a TCP statsd compliant
  listener. If specified, Envoy will connect to this cluster to flush :ref:`statistics
  <arch_overview_statistics>`.

.. _config_overview_stats_flush_interval_ms:

stats_flush_interval_ms
  *(optional, integer)* The time in milliseconds between flushes to configured stats sinks. For
  performance reasons Envoy latches counters and only flushes counters and gauges at a periodic
  interval. If not specified the default is 5000ms (5 seconds).

watchdog_miss_timeout_ms
  *(optional, integer)* The time in milliseconds after which Envoy counts a nonresponsive thread in the
  "server.watchdog_miss" statistic. If not specified the default is 200ms.

watchdog_megamiss_timeout_ms
  *(optional, integer)* The time in milliseconds after which Envoy counts a nonresponsive thread in the
  "server.watchdog_mega_miss" statistic. If not specified the default is 1000ms.

watchdog_kill_timeout_ms
  *(optional, integer)* If a watched thread has been nonresponsive for this many milliseconds assume
  a programming error and kill the entire Envoy process. Set to 0 to disable kill behavior. If not
  specified the default is 0 (disabled).

watchdog_multikill_timeout_ms
  *(optional, integer)* If at least two watched threads have been nonresponsive for at least this many
  milliseconds assume a true deadlock and kill the entire Envoy process. Set to 0 to disable this
  behavior. If not specified the default is 0 (disabled).

:ref:`tracing <config_tracing_v1>`
  *(optional, object)* Configuration for an external :ref:`tracing <arch_overview_tracing>`
  provider. If not specified, no tracing will be performed.

:ref:`rate_limit_service <config_rate_limit_service>`
  *(optional, object)* Configuration for an external :ref:`rate limit service
  <arch_overview_rate_limit>` provider. If not specified, any calls to the rate limit service will
  immediately return success.

:ref:`runtime <config_runtime_v1>`
  *(optional, object)* Configuration for the :ref:`runtime configuration <arch_overview_runtime>`
  provider. If not specified, a "null" provider will be used which will result in all defaults being
  used.
