docs/root/api-v1/network_filters/http_conn_man.rst, before:

.. _config_network_filters_http_conn_man_v1:

HTTP connection manager
=======================

* HTTP connection manager :ref:`architecture overview <arch_overview_http_conn_man>`.
* HTTP protocols :ref:`architecture overview <arch_overview_http_protocols>`.

.. code-block:: json

  {
    "name": "http_connection_manager",
    "config": {
      "codec_type": "...",
      "stat_prefix": "...",
      "rds": "{...}",
      "route_config": "{...}",
      "filters": [],
      "add_user_agent": "...",
      "tracing": "{...}",
      "http1_settings": "{...}",
      "http2_settings": "{...}",
      "server_name": "...",
      "idle_timeout_s": "...",
      "drain_timeout_ms": "...",
      "access_log": [],
      "use_remote_address": "...",
      "forward_client_cert": "...",
      "set_current_client_cert": "...",
      "generate_request_id": "..."
    }
  }

.. _config_http_conn_man_codec_type:

codec_type
  *(required, string)* Supplies the type of codec that the connection manager should use. Possible
  values are:

  http1
    The connection manager will assume that the client is speaking HTTP/1.1.

  http2
    The connection manager will assume that the client is speaking HTTP/2 (Envoy does not require
    HTTP/2 to take place over TLS or to use ALPN. Prior knowledge is allowed).

  auto
    For every new connection, the connection manager will determine which codec to use. This mode
    supports both ALPN for TLS listeners as well as protocol inference for plaintext listeners.
    If ALPN data is available, it is preferred, otherwise protocol inference is used. In almost
    all cases, this is the right option to choose for this setting.

.. _config_http_conn_man_stat_prefix:

stat_prefix
  *(required, string)* The human readable prefix to use when emitting statistics for the
  connection manager. See the :ref:`statistics <config_http_conn_man_stats>` documentation
  for more information.

.. _config_http_conn_man_rds_option:

:ref:`rds <config_http_conn_man_rds_v1>`
  *(sometimes required, object)* The connection manager configuration must specify one of *rds* or
  *route_config*. If *rds* is specified, the connection manager's route table will be dynamically
  loaded via the RDS API. See the :ref:`documentation <config_http_conn_man_rds_v1>` for more
  information.

.. _config_http_conn_man_route_config:

:ref:`route_config <config_http_conn_man_route_table>`
  *(sometimes required, object)* The connection manager configuration must specify one of *rds* or
  *route_config*. If *route_config* is specified, the :ref:`route table <arch_overview_http_routing>`
  for the connection manager is static and is specified in this property.

:ref:`filters <config_http_conn_man_filters>`
  *(required, array)* A list of individual :ref:`HTTP filters <arch_overview_http_filters>` that
  make up the filter chain for requests made to the connection manager. Order matters as the filters
  are processed sequentially as request events happen.

.. _config_http_conn_man_add_user_agent:

add_user_agent
  *(optional, boolean)* Whether the connection manager manipulates the
  :ref:`config_http_conn_man_headers_user-agent` and
  :ref:`config_http_conn_man_headers_downstream-service-cluster` headers. See the linked
  documentation for more information. Defaults to false.

:ref:`tracing <config_http_conn_man_tracing>`
  *(optional, object)* Presence of the object defines whether the connection manager
  emits :ref:`tracing <arch_overview_tracing>` data to the :ref:`configured tracing provider
  <config_tracing_v1>`.

.. _config_http_conn_man_http1_settings:

http1_settings
  *(optional, object)* Additional HTTP/1 settings that are passed to the HTTP/1 codec.

  allow_absolute_url
     *(optional, boolean)* Handle http requests with absolute urls in the requests. These requests
     are generally sent by clients to forward/explicit proxies. This allows clients to configure
     envoy as their http proxy. In Unix, for example, this is typically done by setting the
     http_proxy environment variable.

.. _config_http_conn_man_http2_settings:

http2_settings
  *(optional, object)* Additional HTTP/2 settings that are passed directly to the HTTP/2 codec.
  Currently supported settings are:

  hpack_table_size
    *(optional, integer)* `Maximum table size <http://httpwg.org/specs/rfc7541.html#rfc.section.4.2>`_
    (in octets) that the encoder is permitted to use for
    the dynamic HPACK table. Valid values range from 0 to 4294967295 (2^32 - 1) and defaults to 4096.
    0 effectively disables header compression.

  max_concurrent_streams
    *(optional, integer)* `Maximum concurrent streams
    <http://httpwg.org/specs/rfc7540.html#rfc.section.5.1.2>`_
    allowed for peer on one HTTP/2 connection.
    Valid values range from 1 to 2147483647 (2^31 - 1) and defaults to 2147483647.

.. _config_http_conn_man_http2_settings_initial_stream_window_size:

  initial_stream_window_size
    *(optional, integer)* `Initial stream-level flow-control window
    <http://httpwg.org/specs/rfc7540.html#rfc.section.6.9.2>`_ size. Valid values range from 65535
    (2^16 - 1, HTTP/2 default) to 2147483647 (2^31 - 1, HTTP/2 maximum) and defaults to 268435456
    (256 * 1024 * 1024).

    NOTE: 65535 is the initial window size from HTTP/2 spec. We only support increasing the default window
    size now, so it's also the minimum.

    This field also acts as a soft limit on the number of bytes Envoy will buffer per-stream in the
    HTTP/2 codec buffers. Once the buffer reaches this pointer, watermark callbacks will fire to
    stop the flow of data to the codec buffers.

  initial_connection_window_size
    *(optional, integer)* Similar to :ref:`initial_stream_window_size
    <config_http_conn_man_http2_settings_initial_stream_window_size>`, but for connection-level flow-control
    window. Currently , this has the same minimum/maximum/default as :ref:`initial_stream_window_size
    <config_http_conn_man_http2_settings_initial_stream_window_size>`.

  These are the same options available in the upstream cluster :ref:`http2_settings
  <config_cluster_manager_cluster_http2_settings>` option.

.. _config_http_conn_man_server_name:

server_name
  *(optional, string)* An optional override that the connection manager will write to the
  :ref:`config_http_conn_man_headers_server` header in responses. If not set, the default is
  *envoy*.

idle_timeout_s
  *(optional, integer)* The idle timeout in seconds for connections managed by the connection
  manager. The idle timeout is defined as the period in which there are no active requests. If not
  set, there is no idle timeout. When the idle timeout is reached the connection will be closed. If
  the connection is an HTTP/2 connection a drain sequence will occur prior to closing the
  connection. See :ref:`drain_timeout_ms <config_http_conn_man_drain_timeout_ms>`.

.. _config_http_conn_man_drain_timeout_ms:

drain_timeout_ms
  *(optional, integer)* The time in milliseconds that Envoy will wait between sending an HTTP/2
  "shutdown notification" (GOAWAY frame with max stream ID) and a final GOAWAY frame. This is used
  so that Envoy provides a grace period for new streams that race with the final GOAWAY frame.
  During this grace period, Envoy will continue to accept new streams. After the grace period, a
  final GOAWAY frame is sent and Envoy will start refusing new streams. Draining occurs both
  when a connection hits the idle timeout or during general server draining. The default grace
  period is 5000 milliseconds (5 seconds) if this option is not specified.

:ref:`access_log <config_access_log>`
  *(optional, array)* Configuration for :ref:`HTTP access logs <arch_overview_access_logs>`
  emitted by the connection manager.

.. _config_http_conn_man_use_remote_address:

use_remote_address
  *(optional, boolean)* If set to true, the connection manager will use the real remote address
  of the client connection when determining internal versus external origin and manipulating
  various headers. If set to false or absent, the connection manager will use the
  :ref:`config_http_conn_man_headers_x-forwarded-for` HTTP header. See the documentation for
  :ref:`config_http_conn_man_headers_x-forwarded-for`,
  :ref:`config_http_conn_man_headers_x-envoy-internal`, and
  :ref:`config_http_conn_man_headers_x-envoy-external-address` for more information.

.. _config_http_conn_man_forward_client_cert:

forward_client_cert
  *(optional, string)* How to handle the
  :ref:`config_http_conn_man_headers_x-forwarded-client-cert` (XFCC) HTTP header.
  Possible values are:

  1. **sanitize**: Do not send the XFCC header to the next hop. This is the default value.
  2. **forward_only**: When the client connection is mTLS (Mutual TLS), forward the XFCC header in the request.
  3. **always_forward_only**: Always forward the XFCC header in the request, regardless of whether the client connection is mTLS.
  4. **append_forward**: When the client connection is mTLS, append the client certificate information to the request's XFCC header and forward it.
  5. **sanitize_set**: When the client connection is mTLS, reset the XFCC header with the client certificate information and send it to the next hop.

  For the format of the XFCC header, please refer to
  :ref:`config_http_conn_man_headers_x-forwarded-client-cert`.

.. _config_http_conn_man_set_current_client_cert_details:

set_current_client_cert_details
  *(optional, array)* A list of strings, possible values are *Subject* and *SAN*. This field is
  valid only when *forward_client_cert* is *append_forward* or *sanitize_set* and the client
  connection is mTLS. It specifies the fields in the client certificate to be forwarded. Note that
  in the :ref:`config_http_conn_man_headers_x-forwarded-client-cert` header, `Hash` is always set,
  and `By` is always set when the client certificate presents the SAN value.

generate_request_id
  *(optional, boolean)* Whether the connection manager will generate the
  :ref:`config_http_conn_man_headers_x-request-id` header if it does not exist. This defaults to
  *true*. Generating a random UUID4 is expensive so in high throughput scenarios where this
  feature is not desired it can be disabled.

.. _config_http_conn_man_tracing:

Tracing
-------

.. code-block:: json

  {
    "tracing": {
      "operation_name": "...",
      "request_headers_for_tags": []
    }
  }

operation_name
  *(required, string)* Span name will be derived from operation_name. "ingress" and "egress"
  are the only supported values.

request_headers_for_tags
  *(optional, array)* A list of header names used to create tags for the active span.
  The header name is used to populate the tag name, and the header value is used to populate the
  tag value. The tag is created if the specified header name is present in the request's headers.

.. _config_http_conn_man_filters:

Filters
-------

HTTP filter :ref:`architecture overview <arch_overview_http_filters>`.

.. code-block:: json

  {
    "name": "...",
    "config": "{...}"
  }

name
  *(required, string)* The name of the filter to instantiate. The name must match a :ref:`supported
  filter <config_http_filters>`.

config
  *(required, object)*  Filter specific configuration which depends on the filter being
  instantiated. See the :ref:`supported filters <config_http_filters>` for further documentation.

Commit message:

docs: unhiding and adding 100-Continue to the docs
Signed-off-by: Alyssa Wilk <alyssar@chromium.org>

docs/root/api-v1/network_filters/http_conn_man.rst, after:

.. _config_network_filters_http_conn_man_v1:

HTTP connection manager
=======================

* HTTP connection manager :ref:`architecture overview <arch_overview_http_conn_man>`.
* HTTP protocols :ref:`architecture overview <arch_overview_http_protocols>`.

.. code-block:: json

  {
    "name": "http_connection_manager",
    "config": {
      "codec_type": "...",
      "stat_prefix": "...",
      "rds": "{...}",
      "route_config": "{...}",
      "filters": [],
      "add_user_agent": "...",
      "tracing": "{...}",
      "http1_settings": "{...}",
      "http2_settings": "{...}",
      "server_name": "...",
      "idle_timeout_s": "...",
      "drain_timeout_ms": "...",
      "access_log": [],
      "use_remote_address": "...",
      "forward_client_cert": "...",
      "set_current_client_cert": "...",
      "generate_request_id": "..."
    }
  }

.. _config_http_conn_man_codec_type:

codec_type
  *(required, string)* Supplies the type of codec that the connection manager should use. Possible
  values are:

  http1
    The connection manager will assume that the client is speaking HTTP/1.1.

  http2
    The connection manager will assume that the client is speaking HTTP/2 (Envoy does not require
    HTTP/2 to take place over TLS or to use ALPN. Prior knowledge is allowed).

  auto
    For every new connection, the connection manager will determine which codec to use. This mode
    supports both ALPN for TLS listeners as well as protocol inference for plaintext listeners.
    If ALPN data is available, it is preferred, otherwise protocol inference is used. In almost
    all cases, this is the right option to choose for this setting.

.. _config_http_conn_man_stat_prefix:

stat_prefix
  *(required, string)* The human readable prefix to use when emitting statistics for the
  connection manager. See the :ref:`statistics <config_http_conn_man_stats>` documentation
  for more information.

.. _config_http_conn_man_rds_option:

:ref:`rds <config_http_conn_man_rds_v1>`
  *(sometimes required, object)* The connection manager configuration must specify one of *rds* or
  *route_config*. If *rds* is specified, the connection manager's route table will be dynamically
  loaded via the RDS API. See the :ref:`documentation <config_http_conn_man_rds_v1>` for more
  information.

.. _config_http_conn_man_route_config:

:ref:`route_config <config_http_conn_man_route_table>`
  *(sometimes required, object)* The connection manager configuration must specify one of *rds* or
  *route_config*. If *route_config* is specified, the :ref:`route table <arch_overview_http_routing>`
  for the connection manager is static and is specified in this property.

:ref:`filters <config_http_conn_man_filters>`
  *(required, array)* A list of individual :ref:`HTTP filters <arch_overview_http_filters>` that
  make up the filter chain for requests made to the connection manager. Order matters as the filters
  are processed sequentially as request events happen.

.. _config_http_conn_man_add_user_agent:

add_user_agent
  *(optional, boolean)* Whether the connection manager manipulates the
  :ref:`config_http_conn_man_headers_user-agent` and
  :ref:`config_http_conn_man_headers_downstream-service-cluster` headers. See the linked
  documentation for more information. Defaults to false.

:ref:`tracing <config_http_conn_man_tracing>`
  *(optional, object)* Presence of the object defines whether the connection manager
  emits :ref:`tracing <arch_overview_tracing>` data to the :ref:`configured tracing provider
  <config_tracing_v1>`.

.. _config_http_conn_man_http1_settings:

http1_settings
  *(optional, object)* Additional HTTP/1 settings that are passed to the HTTP/1 codec.

  allow_absolute_url
     *(optional, boolean)* Handle http requests with absolute urls in the requests. These requests
     are generally sent by clients to forward/explicit proxies. This allows clients to configure
     envoy as their http proxy. In Unix, for example, this is typically done by setting the
     http_proxy environment variable.

.. _config_http_conn_man_http2_settings:

http2_settings
  *(optional, object)* Additional HTTP/2 settings that are passed directly to the HTTP/2 codec.
  Currently supported settings are:

  hpack_table_size
    *(optional, integer)* `Maximum table size <http://httpwg.org/specs/rfc7541.html#rfc.section.4.2>`_
    (in octets) that the encoder is permitted to use for
    the dynamic HPACK table. Valid values range from 0 to 4294967295 (2^32 - 1) and defaults to 4096.
    0 effectively disables header compression.

  max_concurrent_streams
    *(optional, integer)* `Maximum concurrent streams
    <http://httpwg.org/specs/rfc7540.html#rfc.section.5.1.2>`_
    allowed for peer on one HTTP/2 connection.
    Valid values range from 1 to 2147483647 (2^31 - 1) and defaults to 2147483647.

.. _config_http_conn_man_http2_settings_initial_stream_window_size:

  initial_stream_window_size
    *(optional, integer)* `Initial stream-level flow-control window
    <http://httpwg.org/specs/rfc7540.html#rfc.section.6.9.2>`_ size. Valid values range from 65535
    (2^16 - 1, HTTP/2 default) to 2147483647 (2^31 - 1, HTTP/2 maximum) and defaults to 268435456
    (256 * 1024 * 1024).

    NOTE: 65535 is the initial window size from HTTP/2 spec. We only support increasing the default window
    size now, so it's also the minimum.

    This field also acts as a soft limit on the number of bytes Envoy will buffer per-stream in the
    HTTP/2 codec buffers. Once the buffer reaches this pointer, watermark callbacks will fire to
    stop the flow of data to the codec buffers.

  initial_connection_window_size
    *(optional, integer)* Similar to :ref:`initial_stream_window_size
    <config_http_conn_man_http2_settings_initial_stream_window_size>`, but for connection-level flow-control
    window. Currently , this has the same minimum/maximum/default as :ref:`initial_stream_window_size
    <config_http_conn_man_http2_settings_initial_stream_window_size>`.

  These are the same options available in the upstream cluster :ref:`http2_settings
  <config_cluster_manager_cluster_http2_settings>` option.

.. _config_http_conn_man_server_name:

server_name
  *(optional, string)* An optional override that the connection manager will write to the
  :ref:`config_http_conn_man_headers_server` header in responses. If not set, the default is
  *envoy*.

idle_timeout_s
  *(optional, integer)* The idle timeout in seconds for connections managed by the connection
  manager. The idle timeout is defined as the period in which there are no active requests. If not
  set, there is no idle timeout. When the idle timeout is reached the connection will be closed. If
  the connection is an HTTP/2 connection a drain sequence will occur prior to closing the
  connection. See :ref:`drain_timeout_ms <config_http_conn_man_drain_timeout_ms>`.

.. _config_http_conn_man_drain_timeout_ms:

drain_timeout_ms
  *(optional, integer)* The time in milliseconds that Envoy will wait between sending an HTTP/2
  "shutdown notification" (GOAWAY frame with max stream ID) and a final GOAWAY frame. This is used
  so that Envoy provides a grace period for new streams that race with the final GOAWAY frame.
  During this grace period, Envoy will continue to accept new streams. After the grace period, a
  final GOAWAY frame is sent and Envoy will start refusing new streams. Draining occurs both
  when a connection hits the idle timeout or during general server draining. The default grace
  period is 5000 milliseconds (5 seconds) if this option is not specified.

:ref:`access_log <config_access_log>`
  *(optional, array)* Configuration for :ref:`HTTP access logs <arch_overview_access_logs>`
  emitted by the connection manager.

.. _config_http_conn_man_use_remote_address:

use_remote_address
  *(optional, boolean)* If set to true, the connection manager will use the real remote address
  of the client connection when determining internal versus external origin and manipulating
  various headers. If set to false or absent, the connection manager will use the
  :ref:`config_http_conn_man_headers_x-forwarded-for` HTTP header. See the documentation for
  :ref:`config_http_conn_man_headers_x-forwarded-for`,
  :ref:`config_http_conn_man_headers_x-envoy-internal`, and
  :ref:`config_http_conn_man_headers_x-envoy-external-address` for more information.

.. _config_http_conn_man_forward_client_cert:

forward_client_cert
  *(optional, string)* How to handle the
  :ref:`config_http_conn_man_headers_x-forwarded-client-cert` (XFCC) HTTP header.
  Possible values are:

  1. **sanitize**: Do not send the XFCC header to the next hop. This is the default value.
  2. **forward_only**: When the client connection is mTLS (Mutual TLS), forward the XFCC header in the request.
  3. **always_forward_only**: Always forward the XFCC header in the request, regardless of whether the client connection is mTLS.
  4. **append_forward**: When the client connection is mTLS, append the client certificate information to the request's XFCC header and forward it.
  5. **sanitize_set**: When the client connection is mTLS, reset the XFCC header with the client certificate information and send it to the next hop.

  For the format of the XFCC header, please refer to
  :ref:`config_http_conn_man_headers_x-forwarded-client-cert`.

.. _config_http_conn_man_set_current_client_cert_details:

set_current_client_cert_details
  *(optional, array)* A list of strings, possible values are *Subject* and *SAN*. This field is
  valid only when *forward_client_cert* is *append_forward* or *sanitize_set* and the client
  connection is mTLS. It specifies the fields in the client certificate to be forwarded. Note that
  in the :ref:`config_http_conn_man_headers_x-forwarded-client-cert` header, `Hash` is always set,
  and `By` is always set when the client certificate presents the SAN value.

generate_request_id
  *(optional, boolean)* Whether the connection manager will generate the
  :ref:`config_http_conn_man_headers_x-request-id` header if it does not exist. This defaults to
  *true*. Generating a random UUID4 is expensive so in high throughput scenarios where this
  feature is not desired it can be disabled.

proxy_100_continue
  *(optional, boolean)* Controls how the connection manager handles 100-Continue.
  This defaults to *false*.   In this case Envoy will strip incoming "Expect: 100-Continue" headers
  from downstream requests, and send the "100 Continue" response itself.  If set to true, Envoy will
  proxy both the "Expect: 100-Continue" header upstream and the "100 Continue" response downstream.

.. _config_http_conn_man_tracing:

Tracing
-------

.. code-block:: json

  {
    "tracing": {
      "operation_name": "...",
      "request_headers_for_tags": []
    }
  }

operation_name
  *(required, string)* Span name will be derived from operation_name. "ingress" and "egress"
  are the only supported values.

request_headers_for_tags
  *(optional, array)* A list of header names used to create tags for the active span.
  The header name is used to populate the tag name, and the header value is used to populate the
  tag value. The tag is created if the specified header name is present in the request's headers.

.. _config_http_conn_man_filters:

Filters
-------

HTTP filter :ref:`architecture overview <arch_overview_http_filters>`.

.. code-block:: json

  {
    "name": "...",
    "config": "{...}"
  }

name
  *(required, string)* The name of the filter to instantiate. The name must match a :ref:`supported
  filter <config_http_filters>`.

config
  *(required, object)*  Filter specific configuration which depends on the filter being
  instantiated. See the :ref:`supported filters <config_http_filters>` for further documentation.
