docs/root/intro/arch_overview/statistics.rst, before:

.. _arch_overview_statistics:

Statistics
==========

One of the primary goals of Envoy is to make the network understandable. Envoy emits a large number
of statistics depending on how it is configured. Generally the statistics fall into two categories:

* **Downstream**: Downstream statistics relate to incoming connections/requests. They are emitted by
  listeners, the HTTP connection manager, the TCP proxy filter, etc.
* **Upstream**: Upstream statistics relate to outgoing connections/requests. They are emitted by
  connection pools, the router filter, the TCP proxy filter, etc.

A single proxy scenario typically involves both downstream and upstream statistics. The two types
can be used to get a detailed picture of that particular network hop. Statistics from the entire
mesh give a very detailed picture of each hop and overall network health. The statistics emitted are
documented in detail in the operations guide.

Envoy uses statsd as the statistics output format, though plugging in a different statistics sink
would not be difficult. Both TCP and UDP statsd is supported. Internally, counters and gauges are
batched and periodically flushed to improve performance. Histograms are written as they are
received. Note: what were previously referred to as timers have become histograms as the only
difference between the two representations was the units.

* :ref:`v1 API reference <config_overview_v1>`.
* :ref:`v2 API reference <envoy_api_field_config.bootstrap.v2.Bootstrap.stats_sinks>`.

Commit message:

docs: add documents about tagged metrics
Mention about tagged statistics.

Signed-off-by: Taiki Ono <taiki-ono@cookpad.com>

docs/root/intro/arch_overview/statistics.rst, after:

.. _arch_overview_statistics:

Statistics
==========

One of the primary goals of Envoy is to make the network understandable. Envoy emits a large number
of statistics depending on how it is configured. Generally the statistics fall into two categories:

* **Downstream**: Downstream statistics relate to incoming connections/requests. They are emitted by
  listeners, the HTTP connection manager, the TCP proxy filter, etc.
* **Upstream**: Upstream statistics relate to outgoing connections/requests. They are emitted by
  connection pools, the router filter, the TCP proxy filter, etc.

A single proxy scenario typically involves both downstream and upstream statistics. The two types
can be used to get a detailed picture of that particular network hop. Statistics from the entire
mesh give a very detailed picture of each hop and overall network health. The statistics emitted are
documented in detail in the operations guide.

In v1 API, Envoy only supports statsd as the statistics output format. Both TCP and UDP statsd
are supported. Since Envoy has plugging mechanism to support different statistics sinks, as of v2
API, multiple stats sinks are supported. Some of them emit tagged/multiple dimentions statistics.
They are documented in detail in the configuration guide.

Internally, counters and gauges are batched and periodically flushed to improve performance.
Histograms are written as they are received. Note: what were previously referred to as timers have
become histograms as the only difference between the two representations was the units.

* :ref:`v1 API reference <config_overview_v1>`.
* :ref:`v2 API reference <envoy_api_field_config.bootstrap.v2.Bootstrap.stats_sinks>`.
